[MUSIC]
Welcome to the last week of our
reinforcement Llarning course.
Today, we're going to finally tackle one
issue we've been carefully avoiding,
only covering at a minimal level in
weeks one through five of the course.
Namely, the exploration versus
exploitation problem as the title
kind of suggests.
We've already learned at least, well,
three major ways of how we can
build [INAUDIBLE] algorithms.
Plus there are the black box
methods like [INAUDIBLE] method,
[INAUDIBLE] strategies or any other
method that basically tries to take
[INAUDIBLE] problem for [INAUDIBLE] or
something similar tackles
at least two major algorithms in
the so-called value-based family,
namely Q-learning, SARSA, valutration.
Actually, much more than
in those I suggest.
We then have to approximate policies with,
well, neural networks,
any other approximators.
And we finally learned how to perform
direct optimization on the policy as it
to distribution in the previous week
about reinforce and similar ones.
So all those algorithms
have one common problem.
They only learn by trying actions,
and seeing which of them work better.
So even Q-learning,
you only speak the same action.
You're never going to learn anything.
So of course, we've learned with
made up futuristics of how to
speed up this process like
epsilon-greedy exploration.
And today, we going to, well,
study a few more accuracies.
Although much more efficient and
much better study, theoretically.
So exploration versus expectation.
Welcome to this week and the next thing
we're going to do is we're going to
simplify our problem a little bit or
quite a bit actually.
Instead of starting with
the usual marketing issue and
process we've been dealing with from
like week two to week five, this time,
we only going to consider
a single step decision process.
Also known as multi-armed bandit.
The difference here is that your agent
only sees one first observational state.
He picks an action.
He gets some feedback and then the whole
sessions is bound to terminate.
The new session starts over and the next
observation agencies in the new session is
completely independent of his
actions in the previous one.
This is of course,
a grossly oversimplified view
on any practical problem.
But for starters, it is very useful some
times where you have to cut the corners in
your formulation.
And besides, it's much simpler to describe
advanced exploration in this setting.
Formulas get much shorter.
We'll of course, get back to the modest
ambition process later in this week.
But for now and
until midway through this section,
consider everything we say about
the modest ambition process.
So is have mission to you already,
those modest ambition processes usually
go by the name of multi-armed bandits.
The story behind this theme is quite
simple and weird at the same time.
The original multi-armed bandit
is a situation like this.
Picturing in the middle a gaming club,
gambling club actually.
And before you stand,
six slot machines like this picture.
Should those slot machines have
a different set of rules describing how do
they pay you and how much money they take?
And basically, whats the outcome or what
distribution of the rewards they give you?
And your objective is to
find the slot machine,
which gives you highest
expenditure reward.
Of course,
there might be from this firmly,
depending on what you want to
achieve from this game club.
But for now, let's consider
the expenditure reward program.
[INAUDIBLE] pick just one machine and
stick to it.
Because well,
God knows what other machine brings here.
But a rational person,
if he has a lot of money could try
to explore some of those machines.
All of those machines first,
get them a few tries and
only then convert to
something that works better.
So of course,
you are highly recommended not to apply
this strategy to an actual
gambling situation.
Because in any real casino,
all those slot machines are going to
be stacked against you.
Otherwise, the owners of
casino would get no profits.
But in any real situation outside this
gambling, it's often possible to reduce
the problem to something similar
to the multi-armed bandit.
Now imagine you are not trying to gamble,
but
instead you are solving an optimal
banner ad placement program.
So have a user which is in this case,
mapped to a gaming club and for
this user have ten potential banners.
Each of which he can either click or
not click.
This case,
if you show user a particular banner,
this snaps to you going to
a particular slot machine.
And well, inserting a dollar in it and
seeing what happens.
A dollar here is basically your time and
electricity of the opportunity you have
lost or could have gained, then the user
is either going to click which is similar
to a slot machine giving you a jackpot or
whatever, giving you some money.
Or not click, which is the same as well,
you wasting your money
on the slot machine.
And you have to find the policy of showing
a particular user some set of banners, so
that it has the highest
probability of clicking on them or
bringing your potential profit
in the expectation, of course.
So of course, the multi-armed
bandit formula systems are limited.
One, completely neglects the effects of
agents action on his next observation.
Should be far from if you
tried to play Atari or
make a self-driving car with
this multi-armed bandit core.
It turns out [INAUDIBLE] products can
be sold by them with almost no loss.
In this case, we're just going
through the banner ad example
where the state was the user you
are trying to get to click all your ads.
Your action was a peak of particular
banner to show this user and
the reward was the expected revenue or
just the revenue for
this particular case we
are showing user this banner.
It's the cliff rate divided by the, or
multiplied by the amount of
money you paid for clicks.
So with that, you can also try to solve
the recommendation system problem.
Say you're an online store
where users buy stuff and
you also suggest them to buy more stuff
that they might be also interested in.
In this case, your state is also a used,
or whatever entity buys stuff from you,
maybe it's a robot and the action to
recommend this user a particular item.
In this case, what do you think
the suitable version of feedback would be?
Yes, if it's an online store where you
try to make as much money as possible,
it makes sense to measure feedback as
basically the amount of profit you make
from items you have sold
if users have bought them.
So again, you can simply
compute this as an expectation.
If it's a different thing say,
a free site like YouTube,
then you could consider instead to
measure kind of user's satisfaction,
users retention on or any other
complicated towards that measure.
How satisfied user is with your service?
In case of again, YouTube,
this would be the fraction of
users that likes documentation or
that have wished the whole
video from start to end.
Of course, in any practical illustration,
you can come up with
more efficient methods.
But this is not the subject of our
present lecture, so let's go on.
A few less of these problems
are the problem of, for
example, information retrieval.
These too can be sold by bandits.
In this case,
your state is user's query and
your action is to show user a particular
set wow, search engine responses for
this query The feedback is whether
a user was satisfied with the search,
whether he has found
what he was looking for.
And again, it's not that [INAUDIBLE] to
measure the user's satisfaction without
having [INAUDIBLE].
Of course, these are all huge
problems to tackle in one lecture and
let's just go on with it.
[MUSIC]